Welcome to our podcast. Siri's The Political History of North Korea. Ah, podcast of K. D. H. I. The Korea Data and History Initiative.
Katie H. I. Is part of the Korean studies program at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Please check us out at www dot k d. H i dot or GTA.
North Korea's oppressive and secretive regime is often described as unknown and unknowable. However, the historical record and data derived from primary sources suggest otherwise.
I'm Ross Medico, and I'm Katie H. I. S co managing editor and senior researcher. My co host is Dr James Person, who is senior faculty lead and lecture of Korean studies at Johns Hopkins site.
Dr. Person is also the director of Katie H. In this episode, we will discuss the founding of the Korean Worker's Party and dive into how this party eventually found political identity
in North Korea. The Korean Worker's Party, also known as the Worker's Party of Korea, is the party which has ruled the government since the country's inception.
Once led by Kim Il Sung, the party is now led by his grandson,
North Korea's current leader, Kim Jong Eun,
and in 2020 the party claimed to celebrate a milestone.
On October
October 10th, 2020 North Korea celebrated the 75th anniversary of the ruling Korean Worker's Party.
But as with many other holidays in North Korea, the dates of the original events are frequently modified to fit a more contemporary political narrative set by its authoritarian government. So
the event that occurred on October 10th was not the founding of the Korean Worker's Party, but rather the founding of a branch of the Korean Communist Party. In 1945 we can actually trace back the Korean Communist Party to even before that. We can trace it back to 1925 during the period of Japanese colonial rule, when a handful of Korean communists got together and, working with the Communist International, established a Korean Communist Party in Korea.
The Communist international, or the Common turn for short, was an international organization founded by Vladimir Lenin, the first leader of the Soviet Union.
This organization was run by Moscow and oversaw the operations of communist parties throughout the world. However, the Communist Party of Korea that the Comintern helped found in 1925 with the spanned after just three years.
There really two major reasons for this number. One was repeated. Suppression by the Japanese party was declared illegal and repeatedly suppressed, its members arrested, and its operations made it almost impossible. Another reason. Perhaps the major reason for the short lived existence of the original Korean Communist Party
was the fact that there was sectarian conflict within the party. And this conflict really was one of the major motivating factors for the common turn to officially disband the Green Communist Party by 1928. After that, there was no single Korean Communist Party operating in Korea, representing the interests of the proletariat.
The term proletariat is commonly used in the context of Marxism to describe the workers or the working class. In the case of colonized Korea, the proletariat was rather small, given the fact that most Koreans were disenfranchised under Japanese rule and were not permitted to take up jobs in the modestly developed industrial sector.
But you had a number of people who fled to the Soviet Union, fled to China, where they got involved in communist politics, joining the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, joining the Communist Party of China and forming independence groups or nationalist ER communist groups again under the auspices of the local Communist parties. According to common turn rules, one could not establish a separate National Communist Party within the boundaries of another country. Some, though, chose to remain in Korea and operate clandestinely. One of the original founding members of the Korean Communist Party guy called Pack Anyang first fled to China and then spend some time in the Soviet Union before returning to Korea and operating clandestinely.
In fact, a pack went undercover, working in a brick factory until liberation from the Japanese in August 1945 whereupon he re emerged and established within days of Korea's liberation. Another Communist Party
But again, not October as the North Korean celebrate, but rather August 1945
so again within days of Korea's liberation in August 15th, 1945 the Korean Communist Party was founded in Seoul.
So being the political capital of Korea for centuries and as most had expected, would remain the political capital, the locus of political authority on the Korean Peninsula. And
And of course, nobody imagined at the time that the Korean Peninsula would be bifurcated into a northern regime and a Southern regime. And so a pack and the Korean Communist Party centered itself in Seoul, the present day capital of South Korea, not Pyongyang. What is today the capital of North Korea. So North Korea, ruled by Kim Jong Eun today commemorates October 10th 1945 as the founding of its ruling Workers Party. This is not 1925 nor is it August 1945 which we know are the dates in which the Communist Party's on the Korean Peninsula were founded. So what exactly did North Korea celebrate on October 10th 2020 which it claims is the 75th anniversary of the ruling Workers Party ?
What the North Korean celebrated was the October 10th convening of a meeting to establish a northern Korean branch of the Korean Communist Party, and this operated under the authority of the Soul Communist Party until April of 1946 when it officially became the North Korean Communist Party. Now,
Now, the decision to establish a five district or five province central committee of sorts for the northern branch of the Korean Communist Party
was a result of the difficulty to operate under the guidance of the main Central Committee located in Seoul, which was occupied by the American military in the years following World War Two. However, the northern branch of the Korean Communist Party was not the Onley Marxist or Progressive Party operating in Northern Korea at the time.
In fact, you had another party that was more dominated by people who had a much better appreciation for Marxism Leninism, the so called Xinmin Zhang, or the New People's Party. Founded by Thebes, prominent Korean linguist and literature scholar Kim du Bon Kim. Gabon was a Korean scholar who left Korea in 1919 not long after the March 1st movement.
This movement, which took place on March 1st 1919, was a Siris of mass demonstrations across the Korean peninsula protesting against Japanese rule. It was a call for self determination, and it was a pinnacle moment and Korea's independence movement.
Japan killed thousands of people in response, leading some dissidents like Kim to flee and operate their political activities abroad.
Kim do bomb went to China and joined nationalist movements, later, joining communist movements, he formed a United front organization in 1941 called the Korean Independence League. He returned to Northern Korea in the late fall of 1945 and the Korean Independence League then became the New People's Party. But again, it appealed more to intellectuals, whereas the Korean Communist Party appealed largely to rural populations and Korea's population was plus the world.
So we have multiple political parties operating on the Korean Peninsula by the mid 19 forties, rooted in communist ideals and mark society ology. But how do we then get to the Korean Worker's Party, which is the party currently ruling North Korea ?
Well, that takes our story to Moscow, Russia, the political center of the Soviet Union.
Yeah.
In June 1946 Kim Il Sung, the head of the North Korean Communist Party and Pack Hanyang, the head of the South Korean Communist Party, traveled to Moscow, where they met with Soviet Premier Joseph Stalin. They went to appeal for assistance in spreading communism in Korea. They sought, for example, equipment for propaganda and agitation activities, but they also talked about domestic politics
Now, interestingly enough, although there were some sources out there indicating this meeting took place, scholars only recently began to grasp the importance of what happened. In fact, many still don't know about this meeting's existence, and it remains a very under research topic.
Little is really known. Until about
20 years ago, I unearthed a document in the Communist Party archives in Moscow that showed that, in fact, there was a meeting. It was just a Nord ER for the transfer of typography and filmmaking equipment to Korea. But this brief document said that the request for this equipment was made in June 1946 during a meeting between Kim Il Sung, Park Canyon and Stalin. So it confirmed that there was a meeting, but it didn't say anything more about the content. But thanks to the memoirs of a woman named Fania Shop Sheena, we have a better understanding of what happened at this meeting and of the significance of this meeting in the Korean history
Shops. Chino is married to the Soviet consul to Colonial Korea, who worked out of Seoul up through Korea's liberation from the Japanese and shop Sheena. She remained in Korea throughout the mid to late 19 forties.
Later on, she went on to become one of the most prominent founding members of the Korea Study School in the Soviet Union. In her memoirs called in Colonial Korea shop, Sheena wrote about this time her husband was summoned to Moscow to company Kim Il Sung and pack Anyang to a meeting which Joseph Stalin and other Soviet officials, including who had become the first Soviet ambassador to North Korea. 20 Shirokov stick off who worked on Korea issues under Stalin's command played a part in shaping the political landscape of Northern Korea. For example, he politically backed Kim Il Sung's rise to power as North Korea's first leader in 1948. He also sided with Kim, and his ambitions unified the Korean Peninsula by force. Just a couple years later,
during the Soviet Union's occupation of Northern Korea, which lasted from 1945 to 1948 stick off had influence in land reform policy as well as in the crafting of North Korea's original constitution. It's no surprise he was present at this Moscow meeting in 1946 between Kim Park and Stalin.
At this meeting, Joseph Stalin asked about conditions in Korea, whereupon Kim and Pak made the request for assistance. Stalin then asked very specific questions about parties in Northern Korea and asked why there were two progressive parties dividing the constituency. Kim didn't have a good answer for that.
Stalin then asked why the Korean Communist Party and the New People's Party didn't just merge and form a Korean worker's party.
Kim Il Sung response is actually quite interesting.
Hesitates moment. Just you know,
we'll have to go back and consult with the people.
Stalin didn't like this. Answer.
Pounds fist on the table. It says.
The hell with the
the people that people tell the soil. It's for us to decide here and now.
And so there you have it. The Korean Worker's Party was founded not in
Pyongyang, er, even in Seoul, but in Moscow by none other than Joseph Stalin.
Stalin was quite frustrated with Kim and Bach, so he told them that then get more experience and if they weren't more politically astute than they were going to be, quote unquote gobbled down by sharks. So he suggested that they even come to Moscow to study. So Kim and Park departed from Moscow. A pack went back to Seoul and Kim to Pyongyang. Kim meets with the head of the New People's Party, Kim do Bang, and informs him of Stalin's orders and so Late in July, there was a meeting of the two parties, and then in August, the two parties held their first Congress, whereupon you had and the founding of the Korean Worker's Party.
So if we were to give a more accurate period for the founding of the Korean Worker's Party, it would be in August of 1946 rather than October 10th 1945 the date which North Korea celebrates
in South Korea. Pakhan Young makes a similar move to form a Korean worker's party out of the Korean Communist Party by merging with two smaller, more progressive parties.
And so you have been a South Korean Workers Party and a North Korean Workers Party now technically soul, remained center of political power on the Korean Peninsula, and so the South Korean Workers Party was technically still in charge. That didn't last very long, though. In fact, it didn't even really reflect the reality because, of course, the Korean Worker's Party in the north received direct Soviet patronage while the party in the south was suppressed by the Americans. In fact, it was declared illegal, and by 1948 pack and young and many of his supporters fled north. By November of 1948 Park actually takes on a few positions, and the newly formed North Korean government in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea becomes foreign minister, for example. But Park is no longer in touch with his political base, which was in Seoul. And indeed the South Korean Workers Party was technically absorbed in early 1949. And then we'd soon drop the geographical markers and it becomes the Korean Worker's Party.
Now the actual nature of the party is not decided until
really the Korean War. There was a debate within the party during the war. What was the nature of the party going to be ?
Was going to be a Vanguard party like the Communist Party of the Soviet Union ? Or was it going to be a mass party ?
The Vanguard Party would be one where you would have a smaller membership, which includes those of a generally higher educational background and people who are well versed in Marxism and Leninism.
This vanguard also includes the proletariat or the working class, which again was modest in the mid 19 forties.
The mass party, on the other hand, would be much more inclusive
not just intellectuals of workers but also more rural populations. Kim Il Sung
Sung was an advocate for the mass party. Opposing him was a man called Ho Chi, an ethnic Korean who had lived in the Soviet Union, came to Northern Korea with the Soviet army in the fall of 1945 in the Soviet Union. He was a mid level party functionary, had demonstrated a real knack for organizational skills. And so he quickly took on roles in the northern branch of the Korean Communist Party and then in the Workers Party. During the war, he tried to impose his vision for the party by purging a large number of people. He did this by taking advantage of the fact that several 100,000 members of the Korean Worker's Party were unable to produce their party identification cards, starting in the fall of 1950 in the spring of 1951 after the American and southern Korean occupation of Northern Korea. So during that period, many people who lived under American and Southern Korean occupation either destroyed or hid their party identification cards to conceal their membership in the Korean Worker's Party. This was seen by okay as an act of disloyalty and as good cause for expelling these individuals from the party. He also reportedly favored people coming up from South Korea who sought to join the Korean Worker's Party because he felt that those living under hostile conditions under first American occupation and then after the founding of the Republic of Korea in 1948 under the Syngman Rhee regime that these people were better equipped to become members of the Revolutionary Party. He reportedly believe that those who were tempered under the hardships of repression and the American zone of occupation were probably more reliable communists than those in the north. According to Andrei Lankov,
some 450,000 out of 600,000 members of the party were purged by okay,
Kim Il Sung, North Korea's founding leader and the grandfather of the current leader Kim Jong Eun. Well, he was leading the young country and the Workers Party. At this time,
however, he was in a precarious and awkward position.
Kim, of course, launched this fracture recital war against South Korea, causing mass casualties and destruction across the Korean Peninsula. From 1950 to 1953 when the Chinese people's volunteers entered that war and occupied North Korea,
China took control of the wars field operations, which politically pushed aside Kim Il Sung.
Kim was looking for a way to earn the loyalty of North Korea's population and secure his leadership.
So when Ho Chi e purged hundreds of thousands of members from the Korean Worker's Party, Kim Il Sung, he saw a political opportunity.
Kim declared a general amnesty for those who were purged and in fact restored the membership of these hundreds of thousands of party members who are purged, thereby earning their loyalty because they are given all of the privileges of party membership again, having all of that restored. And that made a major difference for Kim, who easily could have suffered as a result of his disastrous bid to reunify the Korean Peninsula by force. So while North Korea emerged from the Korean War economically in shambles, Kim emerged from the Korean War with his political authority intact, and the Korean Worker's Party emerged with its character as a mass party, so much so that even the Soviets described the party by the mid fifties as flabby. And indeed, today North Korea remains a mass party.
For example, according to a 2015 estimate, there are some four million members in the Korean Worker's Party.
Now. North Korea is a country with a population of about 25 million people, so proportionally that may not seem like much, However, relative to other countries with ruling Communist parties such as Vietnam and China,
the Korean Worker's Party is proportionally mawr inclusive.
Therefore, in Leninist terms, North Korea's ruling party remains a mass party.
So that's the history of the founding of the Korean Worker's Party and why the date october 10th, 2020 is not really the anniversary of the founding of the Korean Worker's Party. We hope you enjoyed learning about the founding of the Korean Worker's Party and how the party found its character during the Korean War.
We are the Korea Data and History Initiative, which is part of the Korea Studies Program at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Study.
Please check us out at www dot k d. H. I dot org's where you can find resource is on Korean history as well as vast amounts of informative data.
A transcription of this episode is also available on our website.
This episode is part of our podcast series The Political History of North Korea.
This episode was written by our co host, Dr James Person, produced by myself, Ross Medico and Fact checked by Sam Crosby, Katie H. I s co managing editor and senior researcher.
Again, we are the CREA data in History initiative. We hope you check us out at k d h i dot org's.